Lilliana Robinson: All right. We're live.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I've done this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talk many times, and I always like to start it off with a conversation before I get into any of my spiel, which I've done more times than I can count, so it's more about making sure I have a good sense of what would be the most helpful to share
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with all of you, and what conversation we should have about customer discovery, because, like I've said, it's bedrock for us. We already put you through a lot for the application process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would love to get your initial
Neal Sáles-Griffin: feedback on what you're still hoping to learn and get better at with respect to customer discovery in the spirit of it leading to greater, you know, understanding of your customers, and more sales for your businesses. But also your thoughts on the process. So far, what we've exposed you to the mattress. Interview the materials? Some of you have been through this process more than once, so you probably have even deeper understanding of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know what this is all about. So with that being said, I just wanted to open the floor 1st to get any initial thoughts, questions, things you were hoping to learn.
Dave Scott: Yeah, I'll I'll I'll go if no.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Great. Dave, yeah.
Dave Scott: So so thank you very much for the the mattress. I I love that and here's what I'm struggling with personally, which is like
Dave Scott: I have. I have a lot of customers, and they're all on discord, and they talk to me all the time. But I I kind of feel like it's the same 5 customers that talk to me all the time, and so like
Dave Scott: as this, I I kind of want to know
Dave Scott: the customers who are not talking to me, the people who are not on my discord channel the people who bought my 1st game but did not buy my second game. Those are the ones I kind of want to get to. And so like as we start to go through this exercise. If you could help me figure out how to get to, not my die. Hard customers, because those guys are hard to.
Dave Scott: There's 1 right outside my window right now, like they're they're hard to get out, get away from. But like the ones you know, that are are not sort of volunteering their time and energy into engaging with me. That's where I really feel like I need to understand and
Dave Scott: be really helpful to understand how to do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's excellent. Yeah, cause you know, die hard. You're almost going to get them, you know, no matter what, whereas the ones that you want to learn more about to get more of. You're gonna have to do some digging. I I love that Dave, and I appreciate you framing that. So I'll be. I wrote that down, and I'll make sure I address that at some point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right, agent lunar team.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hey? So we I think we mentioned this before, hey? Like we love the jobs to be done. I think that was our favorite part of the application process because it we had a very
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: clear
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: because persona in mind. But through going through that process we started to figure out. Okay, there's actually some potential segments we've not thought about here that we've started to test.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: But I guess where we are struggling at the moment is
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: we. We have 4 potential segments, but all 4 of them.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: from our interviews and from the using the prototype, are excited. But in order to
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: how can I say this in order for them to get value? It's it's 4 very different products and very much determines what we build next. So it's kind. It's obviously we can't build 4 products for them. But then the fear is, if we
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: don't build what they need, how can we truly test whether they
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: are the right customers. So I guess we're just struggling with that like, how do we
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: get confident on that decision? Is that a fair? Yeah. Summary? Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, agent lunar team. I've been so excited ever since screening committee to work with you guys. Because that is exactly what we're gonna work on in the next 3 days as well as in my business blueprint workshop. Next week I have a feeling in the next 2 weeks. You're gonna have a lot more clarity on that. And like, we've known that coming in right? That was something like our judges asked you about. So I definitely think you guys will have answers for that, or at least answers on how to approach it, and then
Lilliana Robinson: you can go out and do that in the weeks, 1st weeks of program. So this is exactly where you need to be.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Okay, awesome. Thanks. Guys, super excited.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Humor.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah. So my question is like, we, we also really liked how the
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: much since you and Djtvt is, you know, giving a lot of structure to things that we've been used to, just, you know, throwing in on the fly
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: so like. That was great. However, us being a solely. b 2 b company. We found it a bit
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: in terms of, you know, like, because everything was b 2 c focused, and the examples were also B to C focused. We had to translate all of that into the b 2 b segment, and actually doing and conducting those interviews felt a bit off.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: just solely based on the fact that you know.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: in those interviews we're supposed to focus on how that person is feeling or how that decision is commencing. I really like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Smiling. Right now. I think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh yes!
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah, cool. So you know, I I'm really curious about the B to be part of that. And as a feedback to doing it as A, b 2 b business felt a bit weird. Let's say, like we've tried to find materials on how b 2 b version of that should is supposed to be working.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: and we couldn't find that a lot. So yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, that's really fair. And and, to be honest, I think our application process should do a better job of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: offering specific advice for B, 2 B+B to C, so that's helpful feedback for you to reinforce. I will say
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this workshop that we give every single program that is always one of the things that comes up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I love it because we're prepared. You know, we obviously have forks for B, 2 B+B to C and tips that we have in our materials that we present now. But you're reminding me that our application process might strike fear in the hearts of the b 2 b companies in the sense of how do I apply this meaningfully in my contact? So I really appreciate you calling that out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Morgan. Oh, yeah, go ahead.
Lilliana Robinson: We, we even every program. We've added more and more examples into our workshops of alumni b 2 b companies who did it well to try and like kind of assuage that guilt, or sorry that worry of the b 2 b Company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Morgan.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think you're muted
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sorry. My question.
Morgan Stanton: Is on the following up on the b 2 BA lot of these, you know, deals. I'm trying to close. It's a lot of back and forth. It's not like one conversation. It's quite a few, and really just making them shorter, like closing the deal and not like some of them have to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Drawn out, so.
Morgan Stanton: I would love to get feedback on, you know, obviously getting all the information to the customers we can, but just kind of keeping it concise as much as as we can. So it's not just kind of waiting to see. But yeah, getting the deal done as quickly as possible.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right. And and you know what's interesting, Morgan is. What I will continue to call out is the distinction that's super important between the discovery process. And then the sales process, which are 2 distinct activities that many founders in my experience tend to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: unintentionally conflate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we'll talk about that and then work with you to expedite the sales process. The more you learn about what it actually takes to get them to. Yes, the fewer you know. Revs, it'll take hopefully to get to that conclusion.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I'm I'm with you 100%. Yeah, any.
Annie Brown: Yes, so I have kind of follow up to that. A very specific question. So
Annie Brown: we I had a meeting with Carter yesterday, and they are interested in our product, which is super awesome. But it's 1 of those things where I'm like. I need to close this deal so.
Annie Brown: I think very specifically. I want to work with y'all to help me close that deal. And then the other thing is that I you know we are operating in different verticals now, and I really appreciated, you know, doing the lean canvas for each vertical. I think something Duncan and I are talking about is
Annie Brown: now that we've got our Dei product done. It's got a product market fit. We've got customers like Carta. What's kind of our next vertical to focus on? And do we go with
Annie Brown: kind of maybe the easier one which might be the social media one? Or do we go with the one that might be a little bit bigger customers, more difficult customers, but might be like the bigger fish. So yeah, so those are.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Kind of.
Annie Brown: Things I'd love to focus on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Excellent strategic challenges that you're facing. I would love to work with you through those. So let's do it. I wrote those down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Monica.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah. So I'm just piling on now, at this point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, let's do it. I I love this. By the way, keep it coming.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): But yeah, I mean, there is a distinction also between b 2 b and Enterprise B, 2 B, like, you know, closing a deal with. A smaller business is different from closing a deal with a 50,000 employee global business which can take a year right or 2 years depending on their procurement process. So
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): you know, it'd be nice to touch on that as well. And then number 2 is a specific challenge that we have in that. We have a a platform that is pretty sprawling, and does a lot of different things, and they're all important. But different customers.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Are excited about different features. Right? So what we end up doing in our marketing is just like mentioning all of them, or all the benefits. And you know, we find it hard to really like.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): understand which features which customers would be excited about. It's kind of random, you know, because the way they work is different. So yeah, just wanted to put that out there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So. Yeah, no, it's interesting. Last thing you just said, Monica. You said. It's kind of random.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My my goal here is in the time that we'll spend together, that notion of random will go away.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we will get closer and closer to causality.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's it's a safe assumption on my end, usually with the customer journey to assume that nothing is random.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but you know you never know, so we'll we'll find out together.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Tell us up.
Talitha Abraham: Hi, so I think an issue that we face is that people are a bit too polite. So they feel like bad to say no to us, and then they give us like superficial reasons, like they'll just be a myriad of different reasons why not to work with us, and I think what we want to figure out is, how do we go beyond that Fluff and get to something where we can get actionable insights to improve our product or.
Talitha Abraham: Or whatever it is. Yeah, I think that's something that we struggle with. A lot of people are too kind. And then, like, okay, what do we take away from this? How do we? What's the next step? Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah couple of quick, like on the on the like off the dome, like instincts. There one is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We want to learn what they're saying yes to as opposed to you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the people who originally say yes to you, and say no, might give you even more insight than the ones that don't say yes at all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a few things there that we can also dig into. But I I love that you have that curiosity, and it's always an awkward journey to to steal like we're all running businesses, and we're in the business of being rejected most of the time, both from investors and from potential customers. So you all are are dealing with a really hard line of work
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that you're all gluttons for it, though, because we're here and you're in tech stars now, but we'll do that together. Too.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Excellent.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, well, I have one other follow up question for you all before I get into my slides. Was there anything that did not resonate with you? Was there anything that you felt like you had like struggled with? Or maybe some instinctual, either disagreement with, or something where you were like skeptical. You're like, I'm not sure this makes sense, or I'm not quite convinced that that's a sound way to approach it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's it's common. So I just thought I'd welcome that because I I tend to encourage it. And I I question these same things myself when I was 1st getting into this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, everyone's convinced. And they're all in like, yeah, we're here. This is, we wouldn't be here if we didn't agree with you. Alright. Let's go. Agent Lunar. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think you all are muted.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Oh, you did, you say? I think, okay.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Oh, go ahead, go ahead. I have my.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: No, no, please.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And else.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: No, no, go ahead, please.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Okay, yeah, I think there was some
Kevin Su | TutorMe: like skepticism when you're listening through
Kevin Su | TutorMe: matches interview. And it's like.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Oh, what? What like milk? Did you buy? What percentage was the milk like? I just.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: I understand, the goal of trying to recreate the mindset or the scenario that they were in when they made this purchasing decision by just
Kevin Su | TutorMe: I think, yeah, if I'm the 1st one to say I'm not fully bought in on how exactly useful that is to
Kevin Su | TutorMe: kind of determine when that purchasing decision was made.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No. Why? Why did he ask? Like the the like? If you remember the milk percentage, what do you think? Yeah.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: So it was about, yeah. The guy went to Costco.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: He didn't have a plan to buy a mattress and then he was doing his regular weekly grocery shopping for the kids, and he had to something about. Oh, I bought some groceries, and I was like, Oh, well, what was it? Oh, milk! How much did you buy? What percentage of the milk did you buy? And you know it just went down this like rabbit hole of like
Kevin Su | TutorMe: questions. And I just think
Kevin Su | TutorMe: for at least my user interviews, like even trying to recreate that. I don't know
Kevin Su | TutorMe: how much of that I would want to do without turning my
Kevin Su | TutorMe: potential users away from this interview. Because, you know, these user interviews are hard to get. Come by, especially when you're really in early in ideation, not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Product stage. If I'm asking. You know, when my students, for example, like
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Oh, what time was it when you were on your laptop searching for our product. What did you search for? And you know, I go down a hole of like what Youtube videos you're watching. I just. I'm just a little skeptical, I think that's that was a good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're skeptical because it feels like information that you shouldn't be asking for.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Yeah, like, or just to what extent do I try to recreate?
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Be like that environment? When that person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hmm.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: What's actually useful to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: To for us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, I I want to pose this question to the room. Actually, before I offer cause. Obviously, I I have a thought on that. What? What do? What do other people think, Dave? You look like you.
Dave Scott: Oh, yeah, I think it. I think it was. I think it was brilliant. I thought it was brilliant, because what cause you saw that the more the guy started talking about all this weird stuff that was unrelated, the more he remembered about buying the mattress. So I came in like, oh, I just went to go buy a mattress, and then it was like, Wait, hold on! I've been sleeping on this crappy mattress for like a year, and like I had been traveling, and my wife had been suffering with it, and I even thought, you know, like it was crazy. So I thought that these small details really kicked in. Sorry, I'm yeah. I feel like I'm yelling.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, you you're just excited.
Dave Scott: Yeah, they they kicked in all the all the synapses started firing. And and I think I I can't wait to use that tech and tech technique, although I think I think I understand what his point is, which is in A, b 2 b, and so I've done a lot of this for b 2 b cause I've been a b 2 b marketer, most of my career and and for b 2 b, you you might argue, you might think that the decisions less emotional.
Dave Scott: But what I what I actually I wrote an article about this where I actually think that a b 2 b decision is actually more emotional than A B to C decision. Because if you go and you, you pick up a chocolate bar at a grocery store you buy that you don't like the chocolate bar. What have you wasted? 495?
Dave Scott: But if you pick the wrong database, you lose your job.
Dave Scott: So so my perspective is that the emotion? It's actually more emotional. And so for you to understand to what those emotional triggers are. Am I going to lose my job. Am I going to get my next promotion, you know? And is my boss gonna like me? Those kind of things, I think, really pay play a huge role in this decision, making process.
Lilliana Robinson: Doing, good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think I think we're gonna get along.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I'll.
Lilliana Robinson: Just offer up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Quick thing. And then, Lily, I know you want to speak in Kevin, just to clarify further
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what he's doing there, and not to jump the gun too much, because I'll get into detail about all of this is he's trying to get the person who he's interviewing to remember the the moment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's actually less about what percentage the milk was in and of itself, and more about, can this person get into that activated part of their memory of walking through the store
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what they were there to do, because that'll help color the environment a little bit more and activate more of the things that might be more fuzzy in their mind until they revisit some of those specific details. So it's an actual interview technique that he learned from the FBI. There's more lore on Bob, and how he like developed these techniques, and how he's taught, you know, some of us like myself how to do them. But it's literally like actual like, you know, investigative techniques that are involved with that kind of questioning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But hopefully, Kevin, you don't have to take my word for it, you'll have to find out as as we go, and and learn from the process itself.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That answer your question, for now.
Dave Scott: I also I I have a crazy statistic, by the way. So when you do, customer interviews like the job to be interviews for B, 2 B. There was a Harvard business school study that said that all you need to do is 12.
Dave Scott: In order to get to 98% accuracy across the rest of your population.
Dave Scott: which is insane.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's that's our magic number.
Dave Scott: Like 6 sigma, right? Like, it's like 9 to get to 99%. You just only need 12. That's incredible. So that's pretty cool. Stat. I always remembered.
Lilliana Robinson: Davis is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: I really appreciate it. So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Keep going.
Lilliana Robinson: Has b 2 b concerns. Dave kind of hinted at that about the kind of emotional pool poll that actually exists within b 2 b. But we'll show you real frameworks that kind of like. Put that into a concrete model to understand this week and next week
Lilliana Robinson: all I was going to say for Kevin. That was a very good question, I can tell you. Have a deep comprehension of what was going on in that mattress interview to even ask that question. We do a mock interview every time we teach this, and when Neil and I teach this at Northwestern
Lilliana Robinson: one time we did a an interview about a girl who bought some air pods. She was pretty convinced that she had bought them with her money from an internship while she was at home over the summer before she came back to school. So she finished the internship. She's at home. She comes back to school with new air pods, while Neil was asking her the questions that the invasive questions. As you said, Kevin, what time was it? Where were you sitting like? Were you buying it on your phone on your laptop. She realized she didn't buy them before she got back to school.
Lilliana Robinson: She bought them once she came back.
Lilliana Robinson: and it was like the 1st few weeks, and it was because all her roommates had bought the air pods. She was convinced it was because her headphones were broken, and she said it was a functional purchase, but we realized it was actually a lot more social.
Lilliana Robinson: So she felt like very left out, because it was when air pods had just come out. All her friends had them, so she got convinced to buy them, even if she kind of was already thinking about buying new headphones. That's when she pulled the trigger. That was the purchase moment. So those kind of I wouldn't even call them invasive. I would just call them investigative questions are actually, what's going to pull the truth out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Awesome.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Yeah, no, definitely, I appreciate the insight guys. That's this is super helpful.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: But.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Very good, excellent! Call out Uber! You had something.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I mean, I'm I'm just thinking out loud here. But this is something I've learned from physics while we were working on psychometric analysis because we wanted to analyze like big communities. And one thing that came up constantly across different studies is that what? When you ask someone in a laboratory setting, or, you know, in a controlled environment
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: on, you know, if you ask them to tell you how they're feeling.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: The answer that they give usually doesn't coincide with what is actually happening. So the self expression of emotion and thought is usually
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: you have to control for some error over there, and I I think the interview did a did an okay job at that. What I would like more and hopefully, you know, maybe we can, you know, do interviews that we, we can, you know, test this theory. But if the questions are more indirect, and if you drive conclusions from them, like, if you ask 3 different questions that allude to
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: things where
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: you know those questions will hint at a specific scenario. And if you can verify that scenario, I think that's closer to truth than what the person is actually expressing, even though you're taking that person like, even though you're rewinding time back in and then putting that person in that position. Even if you ask that person that, given second.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: his expression is usually
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: it tends to be messy and unreliable when it comes to the analysis.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm glad you called that out, and I I'll need your help as we go to like. Try to do more of that, because we're trying to go like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is, this is all
Neal Sáles-Griffin: our history. With this like framework and approach to customer discovery is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the original context. For this framework was not at the early stage that we're operating in. It was for later stage businesses that ended up with heart working with Harvard, and some people will introduce you to to then, like incorporate greater understanding from like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: very, very like robust data sets and access to lots of customers in demand. So at the early stage startup journey. With this framework there's a few different kind of considerations, and and that's 1 of them. So just keep that in mind as we go, that we're not just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: imparting this information on you, or actually trying to continue to like, refine it as we go.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I I mean, like even Toluta just said it like when you're doing a b 2 e sales, for example, like, I think this point is even more relevant than the b 2 e scenario, because, like, you know, that's where I'm.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: But you know, as Seth said you, you're you're you're you're asking for money. They're giving you a no, but they're giving you a thousand one reasons why that no. Is that? No? Well, it
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: well, the nose, usually something much less fluffier, much more uglier. But it's more real right even when you're working at a, you know role at a big corporate job, like people are usually known to mask their identity. And, you know, take on a different identity. So if you were to ask the person which assumes that identity.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: it would, you would get one answer for why, you would get a no, while deep down, the emotion that the real person is feeling is
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: consuming a huge part on why that no. Is that? No. So you know, I think it's good food for thought.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's great food for thought, and one other carrot, I'll add, for those of you that are willing to go down the journey all the way is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's a world where you can get so good at this that the people that you ask to say yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're already going to say yes, in the 1st place, because you had done the prep work required to know who to ask.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's how well you can understand your customers if you take this process seriously enough. So I'm looking forward to that with all of you. So excellent. All right, I am going to queue this up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let me know, Lilian, am I all good? Is it showing what I want to show.
Lilliana Robinson: It's also showing your notes, Doc, on the right hand side.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's see. Here.
Lilliana Robinson: I think you should. You can just stop sharing and only share the window. It's showing like your whole desktop, like with your folders and stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, cool. Okay, let me see. Here, let's try again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What about this.
Lilliana Robinson: Who's better?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Perfect.
Lilliana Robinson: And you can. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: we can't see it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think I got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm gonna stop one more time and then reshare it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Make sure I've got it right.
Lilliana Robinson: By the way, guys, we're our whole team is calling from our office today.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, we're here.
Lilliana Robinson: The background's closed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There we go!
Lilliana Robinson: Neil's background. These are your
Lilliana Robinson: your sweets here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the presenter display. Okay, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Got it.
Lilliana Robinson: Whatever you did the second time was right. Yeah, that's perfect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright cool. Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: few things. One my goal here is to explain how jobs to be done can help you with customer discovery. So I heard a lot about sales. Just now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sales comes from a deep understanding of your customer. So while we might be slowing down for a week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you all are eager to just figure out how to close more deals and get more people to say yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I promise you, if you trust our process, you'll have a more refined understanding of that discovery part which leads into a better process for sales and decision, making overall of your business, and also just compelling you to dig deeper about why people buy. And that's not just B to C, when we think b 2 b, we think entities and businesses, saying, Yes, but at the end of the day, for all of you, it's still a human being at the end of the day that's making that decision.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So you need to understand the humans that are involved in the journey within a business to say, yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I am not a formal person for the most part, so I really have very few formalities that I'm interested in. You can interrupt. You can interject, you can disagree, you can challenge me. I am all about that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so just know that you're welcome to do that and ask anything.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then I guess now, getting into it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one quick question I have for you all is, why do you think it's called jobs to be done?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why not just customer research or customer interviews.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: It had to do with what
Kevin Su | TutorMe: you're hiring the product for
Kevin Su | TutorMe: what you're using that product, what job that product is meant to do.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: correct whole terminology for it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Correct. Yeah. So so a lot of people will go. Oh, this is just like another way of saving, saying what problem you're solving.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I go. No, no, no like, think about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You are hiring
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a a, a business that has a product or service to do a job for you. So what job are you hiring that product or service to do as a very subtle distinction, but fundamentally important that very few people properly ask.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as they're running and starting their business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with that in mind, we've put together some feedback that we've received over the past 5 years through our mentor madness.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when you all go through mentor madness and you're gonna meet some of the best.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: smartest people that we know that we ask to help you succeed. They give us feedback. Not only do they give feedback in the moment, right afterwards, and and they meet with you, and they, you know, interact with you. But I have a session with each of the mentors where I get their feedback about what it was like to work with you and in your business, and what they think of it. So we put together a a few snippets
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from the feedback we've received from our mentors over the years that I thought would be helpful to share with all of you now, because this is just like straight from them. And it's something that was relatively consistent. And you know, we, we think, is important to call out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: use storytelling of current customers, experiences to help sell the product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't chase your customers, understand your customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: focus less on sales until you know your customers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: stop building out technology focused on the business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Stop thinking of your company as a technology and start thinking about it as a problem you're solving.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're too obsessed with product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hit the brakes on the tech, dev work on the business and storytelling immediately before continuing to work on the tech
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sharpen the story. They didn't talk about the customer product in their intro. That's a problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So my point is that this has helped many of our past founders succeed, because even after we teach you all of this for the next couple of weeks, you're going to go into our program. You're gonna meet with all these other people, with investors, and some of you are still going to struggle to speak
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from the perspective of the customer as you talk about and introduce your business, so it will be inevitable feedback that some of you will face. But our job here is to do as much work as we can to prepare you for that, and to give you even more awareness and ammo to circumvent it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I have a few examples of companies that I have worked directly with amongst our tech stars programs that I'm particularly proud of, and the insights that they gained during the program leading into successful and sustainable businesses. So this is real crafter they've worked with some of the like most
Neal Sáles-Griffin: prominent composers and and producers of of content on like Netflix and Amazon and things like that. And they had to do a lot of work to understand who exactly they were selling to. And I remember coming into program they were at like 3 or 4 Kmar. They're more of a Bootstrap business, so they're not venture back in any phenomenal way. They're a small team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but I think they're about to hit 40 camera and they've done that very slowly, in a very iterative way, and I'm really excited to see their very slow and smooth trajectory. But they have very low expenses, too. So that's a fun business that we helped out with jobs to be done
Neal Sáles-Griffin: havoc shield. So this one's on the b 2 b side and obviously they're a bit more verbose and straightforward. But Brian, I think I think he closed his 7 million dollar round few years ago, and seems to be gearing up for the next wave potentially a series a. But on the the cyber security front. He was one of our standouts on the b 2 b side, with the jobs to be done, framework
Neal Sáles-Griffin: going back to B to C. We have Jake from Zest, who you all gonna get to know very well. He's 1 of our favorite founders to have come back and speak to our classes. He was actually a former student of mine at Northwestern, graduated quit his job, and then started a business that I then rejected, I think twice to get into techsars and ultimately accepted. So we'll tell you that whole story one day. But I believe just closed a 2.5 million dollar round.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: made it to final stages with firms like Sequoia out here in the valley. Jason Calicannis is on his cap table twice.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's done quite a good job with the business that I was not excited about at all, because if you teach a college class like me, every business that a college student wants to start is related to like food or sleep, or you know all the things that they have life experiences with which isn't much. So that was a a surprise to me that he managed to get this far through business that I'm actually now pretty excited about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then, there's bloom filter. So that's going back to the b 2 b side but I'm really really proud of them. They close the 7 million dollar round last year. I shared the stage with the CEO Andrew earlier this year in front of a bunch of tech stars. Lps. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he was he gave credit to. I think jobs to be done in particular is something that helped him out disproportionately during our program, and then, last, but not least our our big, our big fish nutri sense. So nutri sense is probably at least amongst the 100 and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 50 companies that I've invested in the the the largest or most successful on paper, for now they're valued at over 100 million dollars they're making. I think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know 3 or 4 million dollars in revenue a month right now. They've got over 100 employees. They're doing quite well, and they provide software augments it with a continuous glucose monitor to help people with their diet and health
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so really excited about these companies, and you'll meet most of these founders and and many others as the program goes on. But I thought I'd introduce you to them because they've all trusted the this process at this stage, and it's back when they, you know, had little to nothing with their businesses, and they're now doing all quite well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright, so I'll keep chugging along, and and I guess my last point here is that many of our past companies would have benefited from learning this if they had taken it more seriously. So whenever I have to take the really sad call of a company shutting down or winding down, or needing to do a massive pivot, or, or, you know having to let people go to save money. And we reflect on what we've learned and what we think we could have done differently or better. And a lot of the times, I would say more times than any other example I can think of.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's typically related to something on the front of the demand side, understanding
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of who they were selling to, and what they were selling.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what effort they put into place to actually get to those people in the right way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's almost always related to something on those those ends. It's less about some sort of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: silly mistake that gets made. Or, you know, one strategic misstep or feature that the product didn't have. It's it's usually less on the supply side and more on the demand side that. A lot of the challenges come to come to bear with early stage businesses.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here's a screenshot of a to do list that you will have access to in permanence, and I share this upfront before I get into the overview of this framework, because I want you all to know you don't have to memorize what you're about to hear.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You don't even need to. Take copious notes you're welcome to, of course, if that helps you. But I just want you to know that everything that I'm going to talk about is very like strongly laid out in detail, step by step, for what exactly I would recommend you do to do this right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So whether or not you're even available for the next 2 weeks. To take this fully, seriously, you will have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: lifetime access to my exact prescription for how to go about doing this in a way that I I think would be best, and that I learned from the people who taught this framework to me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: defining the problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a lot of the times when you all meet with other founders or you're gonna you know you're talking to each other. You all presented your businesses yesterday. I asked people, you know. Oh, what do you do with your business? And they begin to tell me. Oh, well, we offer this or we do that, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know it's all about whatever your solution is, and I end up having to cut founders off or people off when I talk to them and I go. Wait a second. Tell me a story
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that exemplifies the problem that you're solving. And what happens when your solution makes life better for them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And when I ask people that question to tell a story, it it slows things down a good amount. Because now, all of a sudden, you're forced to humanize and personalize what's going on rather than just talking
Neal Sáles-Griffin: typically at a technical level about what it is functionally that your business does.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think whether it's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talking to investors, whether you're trying to get new customers or you're trying to figure out what product development feature you should like focus on next
Neal Sáles-Griffin: being able to articulate and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: truly understand the customer's progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is the most important thing that you could be investing your energy into. So I treat jobs to be done as my like product development, secret weapon
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because, as Kevin already said, people don't buy products or services, they hire them to help them make progress in their life.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the original, tried, and true example here is, people don't want to buy a quarter inch drill. What do they want?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Feel free to unmute?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't want a quarter inch drill, but I want.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: Assemble my Ikea cupboard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I yes, so let's go from there. So usually it's quarter inch hole. I don't want to drill, but I want a hole. Why do they want the hole? They want a hole? Because they have something to assemble or put together, or hang on a wall, and then I have that thing to like for me. I I hang things on walls like this like motivational posters. I have some of these for you all in this office. Ready to go up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but because I want to motivate myself to get things done, or I want to use that Ikea Assembly to, you know, put books on to, to read, to draw inspiration from, to serve as a zoom background. And then from all of that well, what's my motivation of wanting to have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a motivational poster or something inspiring on the wall. It's to be more productive to get things done, and then the list goes on and on so. I don't know if you all have ever heard of this framework, called the 5 Wise
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but they say, don't ask why, just one time you have to ask at least 5 to get closer to the truth of what somebody really wants. It gets to the point where it gets a little too deep, so you have to call it at some point. So we went from a drill all the way to. I'm trying to be productive.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: bare form hanging things on the wall. Therefore I need to drill, and therefore I need a hole. But at some point you call it, and you have to know kind of where that existential moment would, you know, cross the line? So the way I want you all to think about it is kind of like there's this person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and whether they're in a business trying to sign off on behalf of the business, or a direct consumer. Still, at the end of the day. There's a person trying to get somewhere.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So how do we get them there? So there's a struggling moment that they're going through. There's a current circumstance they're in, and there's the progress and the idea of a new way that they're going to try to attain and reach. And that's all we're here to help you all solve for and figure out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so jobs to be done, in my view, is all about understanding of the why underneath the choices that they're making
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that causality. And also, you know, the causal mechanisms might be more than one. But we're looking for the majority influencers. So the Pareto principle, the 80 2020% of the effort produces 80% of the yield so that that whole notion of what is the most sensitive aspect of the causal inputs for someone to make a decision.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, lastly, on a point of humility for us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When you think about that customer and where they want to go.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We are merely the bridge to getting them there. I think a lot of the time we think of our businesses as the most important thing, because it is the most important thing to us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the customer just treats us as a pathway to get to what they want. They're not necessarily betting at all on on who we are, what we're about, and if a better us comes along, they're happy to switch.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we have to keep that in mind throughout the entire journey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, there's what I perceive most people to address which are typically symptoms and speaking on problems. But we're here to also dig into the root causes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know what are the things that are actually underlying the behaviors that are more obvious to us? And how do we get down to those to better understand how to help our customers succeed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So with all this in mind, I have a quick fun sidetrack journey to share with you all. Has anyone seen this video with Professor Clay? Christiansen?
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Have you all seen it?
Barış Ülgen: Is this?
Dave Scott: It was part of our homework actually.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, got it. Okay? Good. So so let's talk about it. Then, if you've seen it, that's great.
Lilliana Robinson: You guys are just awesome because it wasn't part of the homework. It was like Linkedin, the optional optional resources. That's why you're all here. I'm very.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They did. This is great. So has has anyone here not seen this video?
Lilliana Robinson: I did, I saw a couple of nods of not seeing it new.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay? Alright. So if you all don't mind, it's 4 min long, is it? Okay? If we re-watch it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that, okay? Okay, cool. Cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's do that. I'm gonna switch it up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 4 min, and then we will jam, share, sound.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool. Let me know if this comes through properly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Good. Hi! My name's Clay Christiansen. I'm a professor at the Harvard Business School.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I brought with me a set of puzzles all related to innovation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We decided that the way we teach marketing is at the core
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of what makes motivation difficult to achieve. The most helpful way. We've thought of it so far
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that we actually hire products to do things for us
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and understanding what job we have to do in our lives for which we would hire a product is really the key to cracking this problem
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of motivating customers to buy what we're offering.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I wanted just to tell you a story about a project we did for one of the big fast food restaurants.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They were trying to goose up the sales of their milkshakes. They had just studied this problem up at the Gazoo. They brought in customers who fit the profile of the quintessential milkshake consumer, and they'd give them samples and ask, Could you tell us how we can improve our milkshakes, so you'd buy more of them. Do you want it? Chocolatey or cheaper, chunky or chewier?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They get very clear feedback. They would then improve the milkshake on those dimensions, and it had no impact on sales or profits whatsoever.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, yeah. Anybody want to guess what business
Neal Sáles-Griffin: place talking about.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Mcdonald's.
Talitha Abraham: Donalds.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's Mcdonald's. It is Mcdonald's that is the so he's from Harvard Business School. They're dealing with the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the largest and most successful Fast Food Restaurant Company of all time. He's very politely alluding to them in a vague way. But he's being pretty obvious and clear
Neal Sáles-Griffin: now. The process he just described that they were going through to get feedback about their milkshakes, I think, should sound familiar to many of you about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how you all, or some of you have probably tried to get feedback from your customers or potential customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? You. You present them with options, you ask them for feedback. Ask them which ones they like, and then they tell you. And then you do those things, and you're like, why am I not selling more?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why aren't they paying me more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, although we're talking about milkshakes, I hope you can see the parallels to any of your businesses, because it's going to continue.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one of our colleagues went in with a different question on his mind, and that was.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I wonder what job arises in people's lives that cause them to come to this restaurant to hire a milkshake.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we stood in a restaurant for 18 h one day and just took very careful data.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What time did they buy these milkshakes? What were they wearing? Were they alone? Did they buy other food with it? Did they eat it in the restaurant, or drive off with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It turned out that nearly half of the milkshakes were sold before 8 o'clock in the morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is my favorite part to pause at. So, for those of you who have not seen this video.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do you think is happening at Mcdonald's for people to buy milkshakes before 8 o'clock in the morning?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any guesses.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because that's pretty weird.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Breakfast.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Somebody said, breakfast, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. A milkshake for breakfast.
Lilliana Robinson: Karim, did you wanna say something? I saw you on mute.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: I was. I was thinking about the same as well. I mean, I've had ice cream for breakfast before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right.
Lilliana Robinson: The start of.
Nicholas Li: The kids.
Lilliana Robinson: What Nick.
Nicholas Li: Are they buying for their kids on the way to school?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hmm, interesting.
Yogesh Sabareenath: Something to eat during their brunch or something during in the office hours, so that they could get it earlier.
Lilliana Robinson: Like they buy it really to bring to work, to eat at the office.
Yogesh Sabareenath: Like a snack in between
Yogesh Sabareenath: morning time they can have during their office hours.
Lilliana Robinson: It's so interesting to deal with like professional adults. Because sometimes when we ask our college students this, they're like, Oh, obviously, they were partying.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They were out late. Yeah, late night. Milkshake action. Any other quick hunches, ideas.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: Like Frappuccinos, or something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. So I mean, obviously, I don't know if you can tell by the dated Imax in the in the video here. But this is a long time ago this recorded. So Mcdonald's has clearly changed a lot of what it does and what it offers. Since. And you know you're about to learn a little bit more about why, but I'll just say that at the time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: finding out, by looking at the data that half of their milkshakes were being sold before 8 o'clock in the morning was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like jaw dropping.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It was like, what is even happening here, and there is a possibility that some of you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with the right set of, you know, research steps and questions. You might learn really surprising things about how some of your potential customers are going to use your products.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So let's find out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The people who bought them were always alone. It was the only thing they bought, and they all got in the car and drove off with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so to figure out what job they were trying to hire it to do. We came back the next day and stood outside the restaurant so we could confront these folks as they left milkshake in hand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and in language that they could understand, we essentially asked.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: excuse me, please, but I've got to sort this puzzle out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What job were you trying to do for yourself that caused you to come here and hire that milkshake.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they'd struggle to answer. So we'd then help them by asking other questions like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, think about the last time you were in the same situation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: needing to get the same job done. But you didn't come here to hire a milkshake. What did you hire?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, as we put all of their answers together. It became clear that they all had the same job to do in the morning, and that is, they had a long and boring drive to work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they just needed something to do while they drove to keep the commute interesting. One hand had to be on the wheel, but somebody had given them another hand, and there wasn't anything in it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they just needed something to do while they drove.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They weren't hungry yet, but they knew they'd be hungry by 10 o'clock, so they also wanted something that would just pull down there and stay for their morning. Good question, what do I hire when I do this job. You know I've never framed the question that way before, but last Friday I hired a banana to do the job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Take my word for it. Never hire bananas.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're gone in 3 min. You're hungry by 7 30,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you promise not to tell my wife I'd probably hire donuts twice a week, but they don't do it well, either. They're gone fast. They crumb all over my clothes. They get my fingers gooey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sometimes I hire bagels, but, as you know, they're so dry and tasteless. Then I have to steer the car with my knees while I'm putting jam on them, and then if the phone rings. We've got a crisis.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I remember I hired a snickers bar once, but I felt so guilty. I've never hired snickers again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me tell you when I come here and hire this milkshake. It is so viscous
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that it easily takes me 20 min to suck it up. That thin little straw.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who cares what the ingredients are? I don't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All I know is, I'm full all morning, and it fits right here in my cup, holder.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, it turns out that the milkshake does the job better than any of the competitors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which in the customers minds are not Burger King milkshakes, but it's bananas, donuts, bagels, snickers, bars, coffee, and so on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I hope you can see how, if you understand the job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how to improve, the product becomes just obvious.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so let's do a quick debrief on that. Thanks for humoring us again for those who took the time to watch it already. But I'd love to discuss this a little bit further, and just anything to set out to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That was all intuitive and and maybe what you learned. And then I have a quick exercise for us to go through about that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: any initial reactions or feedback.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Agent, lunar.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Oh, I'm smiling. I mean, this is one of my favorite ever interviews. I've read the book about it, you know this. It gets me really excited. So I'm glad that you shared it. But I think for me the biggest standout moment, and it gets me every time is when he mentions that the biggest like the competitor. It wasn't Burger King, or I can't remember the other ones that he mentioned now, but it wasn't fast food restaurants. It's actually the donut or the snickers bar, and that's the bit that
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I have. We have to remind ourselves of all the time. It's not always directly
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: the competitors that come to your mind. In your customers, mind. And I think that's just so valuable. Just yeah. Initial reaction.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I I couldn't agree more. It's it's all about the the the true competitive set, not just the direct competitive set. And when I meet most founders, and the reason most of them don't get investment from me is because I hear so many of them say, Well, we don't have any competition, or our competitors are these companies that are doing the exact same thing as us. But we're better. And I'm like, yeah. But who else? Because most of the people you want to serve are already doing something, and it's none of you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So tell me what they're doing, and very few people do that well or understand that? Well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Morgan, yeah.
Morgan Stanton: For me, it was kind of the realization like cause I never. I mean, I love this video. I never would have guessed that people were using it, for I find people put some comments in the chat. I find it kind of gross to drink a milkshake, and at college for me was a long time ago, so it wouldn't have come to mind. So, remembering to be like
Morgan Stanton: humble for what your customer wants. So even if it's at the top of my mind, I think this is what people will love like to remember like that might not be true. And to to really get the feedback from the customers. Make sure you're building a product they will want, and maybe, you know, take yourself down a peg about what you think will be the ultimate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, well, let me ask you this, Morgan, have you ever had cereal for breakfast?
Morgan Stanton: Yes. But yeah, not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Have you had yogurt.
Morgan Stanton: Yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. So now we're trending in the direction of would before Mcdonald's had the things that we now know that they offer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They didn't have these same things.
Dave Scott: Smooth.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when you don't write or smoothie right? So so there's these things that there's the job of what needs to be done. And then, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mcdonald's has a drive through right, I can go there to get an adjacent like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: replacement for the thing that I would probably would want instead, which might make me feel less guilty. Right? Milkshake sounds a terrible thing to have for breakfast, but when you go oh, it's a yogurt parfait, or it's a smoothie all of a sudden. It doesn't sound so crazy. Right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're actually jumping the gun to my exercise. This is perfect. What I wanted you all to do is put yourself in one of 2 camps. You're at Mcdonald's on the executive team, and you're either on the marketing team or you're on the product team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I want you all to tell me as an executive on the marketing or product team, what you would do differently with these new insights that we have with this Harvard Research team that we employed to help us understand why our customers are buying milkshakes before 8 o'clock in the morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So any marketers or product people in the room want to tell me what you do as an executive at Mcdonald's, now that you know what's going on.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I mean, like, what comes to mind is, I'm not a marketing or a, you know product person. But there's a data dude. What comes to mind is, I would try to collect
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: the average distance of the drive that these people are making, and then somehow try to figure out the average or median milkshake intake per kilometers and then try optimizing my portions around that I guess.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Help me understand this more. I want to make sure, because I I've never heard anyone say what you're saying right now, so I'm having a great time. This is like new content for me. So yeah, I'm like, I, I want marketers. And for product people, you're like, I'm the data dude. What's the distance in the median and the consumption? I'm like, all right. Bro, let's go so tell me what you're trying to solve for by calculating that.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Well, all the problem is, if you're buying a milkshake, and if it's and if it's if you're hiring the milkshake to solve the problem of keeping you occupied while you're driving to work. That means that if that milkshake is too early gone gone down, then that's a bad thing, because you know, the human.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Deltas, and you'll be like, oh, I had the milkshake before, and now I don't have that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright!
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: The option B is, if that if the if you can't consume the milkshake, since it's a multi thing to have a milkshake for breakfast, and you'll be judged by, you know, workers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: People that you're in. You don't want to walk into an office at 8 8 o'clock with a milkshake in your hand. So it's like, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do I finish this before I'm there? Yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Exactly. Exactly. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So so my question for you is, I'm putting you on the product team. Mr. Data. So what do you change about the product, to optimize for that.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Well, I recall reading something else about the same thing on a different resource. I'm a bit influenced by that, but I think they've experimented with the straw
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: and how that is influencing the intake. But that's not my original idea.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Correct.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah, I mean.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, they they did. They did do that like. What you're saying is exactly what they did. They changed the straw, they made it larger, and then they also changed the viscosity of the drink itself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So they can adjust for how quickly it's consumed. That's right. You got it. That's the those are good product changes to make.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Dave, I'll kick it to you.
Dave Scott: Yeah, as as a marketer, I I rebranded as a breakfast milkshake.
Dave Scott: and then I charge extra for it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Very good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Kevin.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Yeah, I'd start expanding into
Kevin Su | TutorMe: different little breakfast items that serve that same
Kevin Su | TutorMe: purpose as what the milkshake is being used for. It's a little like pancake bites, I don't know. Cut the
Kevin Su | TutorMe: cut the sausage, my muffin in half, make into a wrap. I don't know like anything
Kevin Su | TutorMe: that people were looking to do with the milkshake they can now do with other menu items at Mcdonald's.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's right. That's right. You're thinking precisely around the job. That's good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're at.
Nirat Attri: I think because the problem statement revolves around the commute.
Nirat Attri: So what I'll look to do is alter packaging to reduce condensation. Perhaps
Nirat Attri: that would be something that makes it a little bit more prize, more sales. Because okay, the Mcdonald's milkshake is packaged in a way that it makes less of a mess in the car.
Nirat Attri: So I perhaps look to optimize for that.
Nirat Attri: That's 1 and then the other one, because, like just hearing feedback from people that have overheim and
Nirat Attri: opposition to milkshakes or breakfast. Perhaps, like the breakfast milkshake, makes a lot of sense like, just different from the regular one.
Nirat Attri: and then become something that we branch off into.
Nirat Attri: Those will be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, no, I mean, I mean, strangely enough, I think somebody already called it out, but they're called smoothies. It makes us feel real bad to call them a breakfast milkshake. But if you look at the calorie content and the nutrition facts not too different.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right, scissor.
Sezer: Yeah, I guess one of the reasons big shakes are preferred is also that they are cold
Sezer: as opposed to hot, which is a which may be inconvenient to have while driving so.
Sezer: and probably after a while people will get bored from having milkshakes every morning, so
Sezer: I would have more varieties in cold products, like drinkable or eatable. But yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great. Alright.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Codo! Or am I saying your name correctly?
Lilliana Robinson: Alright!
Çoruh | CogniScope: It's sort of.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sure, sure.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Yeah.
Çoruh | CogniScope: So I would probably like associate with the breakfast items as
Çoruh | CogniScope: another idea. But I would like make them
Çoruh | CogniScope: comparable, like, with a marketing like. Here's a bacon, egg calories, and the nutrition counts. And here is our milkshakes nutritious properties. So PI just would like to make people feel less guilty to have a milkshake instead of having a breakfast.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Got it. So addressing the the guilt factor, then for those. So it's basically to bring in potentially additional consumers.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Yeah, like, yeah, I promoted a bit more like a healthier option rather than having a breakfast like cooking all those things, and like having just like a condensed version
Çoruh | CogniScope: of bacon and eggs, or
Çoruh | CogniScope: something else, maybe like play with the taste a bit like to. So so they can
Çoruh | CogniScope: maybe have
Çoruh | CogniScope: like a cereal taste they all love, or something else.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great. Let's keep going, Annie.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think you are muted sorry.
Annie Brown: Sorry. I'm curious if Mcdonald's did this because of this study. But I know Mcdonald's now offers like Frappuccino is competitive with Starbucks and those sorts of things. So I think I would be. You know it. I'd be interested to see if that was a direct response to this type of study.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, it. It kind of opened the floodgates to a lot of changes, right? So I I can't give all this one story credit for everything that they've done. But it was in the early stages of a deeper level of understanding of what actual consumption is is caused by
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, and that can lead to an organizational kind of paradigm shift, if you will, as far as how people think about understanding what their customers want.
Annie Brown: Interesting. Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all right. Agent, lunar, team.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, I'm just thinking through the lens of a marketeer. Perhaps something
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: that Mcdonald's may not have thought about prior to to these findings was
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: advertising where their customers are, and one of the other insights is that their customers are actually commuters. So, putting ads where the customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And billboards on the side of the road which we see now, but perhaps they forgot to put.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: or didn't think to put, a milkshake at 7 or 8 am. So that could be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, and acknowledge their commute, meet them where they are, acknowledge how bored they might be, and maybe target those ads for those peak traffic areas where you're slogging through in rush hour. And you're like, what am I gonna do? So you you there's a lot of detail and thought that can go into where to place these things. Once you have a better understanding of what they're going through right.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, for sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I love this example. Everyone, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think most of us can relate to at least one or some of the products mentioned. You know, bananas, donuts, candy, bars, milkshakes, breakfast, Mcdonald's. These are all household, familiar things. We all eat food at some point in our lives, hopefully, daily, most of us. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that being said, I hope you're seeing maybe a hint of a parallel.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whether it's software, whether it's something highly technical, whether it's, you know, some deep tech. You know, business that you're you're building. There's still a connection here to the theme of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what someone's hiring it to do may not be always obvious or directly related to what you're assuming.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that is the lesson that I want to keep going down the road with. But also, I think in just 15 min.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We did essentially what I'm hoping to teach you all in over the next couple of weeks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is, we got an understanding. We talked, they they talked, they talked to these customers, figured out what job they were actually hiring it to do, and based on that, we put ourselves into the shoes of both marketing and sales and product development. And we asked ourselves, what can we change? Given what we now know about what our customers actually want.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That is what I want you all to do. That is what we're going to help you all do in perpetuity. And, by the way, you don't do it once
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you do it throughout the life cycle of your business, because as you grow and as you scale, and as you acquire more customers, the needs will shift, they'll change, they'll evolve and expand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're going to have to integrate these types of techniques into the DNA and fabric of your business to continue to innovate and be successful and competitive, as more people realize that your business is doing well, and they want a piece of your pie.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just keep all of this in mind as we go. But I hope that was a useful kind of exercise for us to initially go through here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any last questions before we move on to the rest of my content here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So clay, you may know from something else.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He wrote a book in the Leave late eighties called the Innovator's Dilemma.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So some of you may have read this if you either went to business school, or you're like one of those cool business nerds like myself. It's a phenomenal resource to understand the origin of innovation. Clay was actually the academic who is credited with and coined the term disrupt.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I know when we say disrupt, especially in Silicon Valley. It's like almost like a cliche.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But in this book the innovator's dilemma.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He actually coined the term disruption in the context of, you know, small upstart businesses disrupting larger and more entrenched corporations with technology and business progress, and in a way that actually gives credit. And you know, meaning to the term, it's not just used in a superfluous way. So when I use the the notion of disrupt, I'm not really
Neal Sáles-Griffin: against using cliche, or or more commonly used terms or phrases, if they have meaning. And this one means a lot to me, because the disruptive businesses are the ones that tend to be the best investments and the most valuable.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I want you all to be comfortable, thinking of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: being disruptive within your, you know, respective industries and markets, because if you do, you're more likely to succeed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there's another book he came out with, believe this was over the past. Let's see, it's 2024. When was it, Liliana? Like? Maybe like 2016 or 17 when he came out with this book, like I I at the point he wrote this book, I knew him
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and and had had interacted with him and and a few others in this world. So the bob, the person who I'm also going to introduce you to, who was the person who conducted the mattress interview. He's also mentioned in this book. But it's basically the follow up from the innovators dilemma to talk more about jobs to be done. And the notion of competing against luck by actually developing an understanding of your of your customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: couple resources that I know you all are familiar with. But I want to revisit, because these are the most important ones for the next couple of weeks, as well for us
Neal Sáles-Griffin: before the program officially starts.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One is this timeline?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is what I have pulled up in front of me. Whenever I am conducting a customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I treat it kind of like a game. I have a template that's blank. So meaning I know these fields, but there's space for me to fill in notes and details in between them. But the notion here is that as you're having your conversation to get to know your you know customer or the person you're interviewing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's a pattern that tends to fall into place. And it's not precisely this number of of spaces there could be more or less depending on who you're talking to. But for the most part there's a phase that people go through of passively thinking about making change.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's something that activates them into a phase of now I want to make a change. There's a moment where a decision gets made and a change happens. And then there's the consumption post change. Meaning, how is it going? Is it working? Is it not? And do I change again, or am I happy?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is a loop? This is a time loop, and this is relevant both for B, 2 B+B to C,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I promise, and this is relevant both at B, 2 B, with the smaller medium sized business, or at the enterprise level. Because there's just multiple forces, hierarchies, and people involved in those in those journeys. But this timeline has been tried and true, for I think, a couple of decades now, as far as this framework is concerned.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: secondly, after the interview is conducted, there are now the forces of progress
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that we have to evaluate and analyze. So during the interview itself, we're mapping the timeline and make sure we have it down
Neal Sáles-Griffin: post interview. We're then asking ourselves.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, what were the forces that were identified in this conversation that drove them to either make a decision, or, you know, kept them from moving forward towards a new behavior.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the way this kind of goes is, I go. Okay. Well, what were the pushes? What were the things that were driving somebody to make something better.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what was drawing them to it instead of that. So a push is something like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm driving my car and I get a flat tire.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My push is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: well, I I need to get my
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my wheel fixed so that I can keep driving my car.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Can anyone think in my car. Analogy example. What a pull might be compared to the push of the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: flat tire.
Annie Brown: Maybe better, better tires for driving through snow. But.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: interesting. Yeah. So so the notion there would be like, okay, this will. This will help me be more performance oriented. And within a particular context, right?
Annie Brown: Yeah. In Montana. They think about that a lot. Whenever a new type of tire.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And.
Annie Brown: Everybody's.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Perhaps. Going. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Got it any.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Or.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have a more indirect example to share. Because I think it's relevant. Given that we're in the Bay area
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't need a new car, but I really like the Tesla
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, and what it would say about me being here and fitting in. So I know it's not a tire. So just to, I know I'm taking a little bit more of a leap. But the whole notion is that there's problems that people solve by either buying new cars or upgrading their cars or replacing things on their cars that break. And then there's a whole notion of like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't need a new car. I already have a car. It works, but this car is going to make me feel differently or better, or has a promise of something that I'm excited about and drawn to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so understanding. The difference between a push and a pull with your customers is really important, because some of you have businesses that are inherently
Neal Sáles-Griffin: can can live in the Push quadrant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and don't even need many other forces to be at play to make progress because you're dealing with someone who has an acute problem that you directly solve. And there's a functional good relationship that you have with them, that you can kind of bank on and and focus on. But more often than not all 4 quadrants are active for certain people in the sales and decision making process. So the pull contrasts to the push
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you want to have in combination. Right? So you don't want just people to have problems. You want them to get excited about becoming a better version of themselves by becoming your customer right? What else is that going to help them become, rather than just addressing the issue? Will this make me happier, healthier. And what have you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, when it comes to the forces of resistance.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so the habits and anxieties. Another analogy that I really like to use is, I like to talk about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: switching operating systems. Anyone ever had to switch from Mac to PC or PC to Mac.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you've had to do that. Then you probably understand these forces quite well, because for me, I remember I was like this, really obnoxious, hardcore PC. Nerd.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, as a kid and going into college. And I just looked. I frowned upon people who thought Mac was good because you couldn't change anything. You couldn't customize anything. And you know there's you had to pay a lot of money to have some fancy, shiny looking thing, and it just didn't. It wasn't as powerful as anything I could build. And I was just like this totally judgmental kid.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think in when I was in college. That's when the 1st iphone came out like right when I was a freshman.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I remember I got the iphone, even though I had a dell xps laptop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I had to ask myself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: why is my phone
Neal Sáles-Griffin: better and faster to use in my laptop?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then all of a sudden, a year later, I find myself with a Macbook.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I just remember going through that journey and being a total hypocrite and switching to back and never looking back. From having this like phenomenal initial product experience with the 1st iphone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I say all that to say. There's my habit of what I'm comfortable with in the present of. I know windows. I know the shortcuts. I know how it all works, and there's the anxiety of a new solution, meaning like, I gotta learn a new way of doing things. There's a different button. There's new stuff to learn like I don't have time for that. I'm just trying to pass my university classes
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. And there's many other examples of these, but I just use those accessible ones, because I I think many of you all can relate to them. But the journey for all of you is one, the 1, 2 punches.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What is going on in this user's journey and timeline? It will teach you to ask the right questions to fill this out. And then 2. What are these forces that are both promoting progress and resisting change
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that my potential customer is experiencing right now? And how can I better understand that once you are able to document these 2 things well
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with well defined individuals who fit the right criteria that you're trying to learn the most about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to Dave's point earlier.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You only need about 12 of these
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to get to some phenomenal insights that I would actually back you in making
Neal Sáles-Griffin: substantial changes to either your product. Your marketing and sales process or your business overall and its direction.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have coached founders to make significant changes to their businesses, just with 10 to 15 of these high quality interviews, because the patterns that will emerge will become very evident over time in the process of conducting these interviews, so much so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that by the 10th or 11th conversation
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's almost a formality that you're conducting it, because you can predict what they're going to say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they fit into 1, 2, or 3 different categories that you've already uncovered from a set of jobs that they might be hiring you to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. That's the magic process that I'm alluding to. I can't guarantee or promise it, but I can absolutely, you know, provide you all with the best possible pathway to try to get there yourselves. Alright, we got 2 questions, youger, and then Kevin.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah, quick, quick one. Can you go back to a slide where you have these passive looking, active looking thing? This is something that we've struggled with while we were conducting our interviews for the application process. But we found that this, like, I, I wanna ask, is this step in stone like the these steps that you know we have to take, like passive looking, active looking, deciding, because usually, maybe it's because of the nature of our business.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: The interviews that we can conducted were okay. I wasn't thinking about this at all for a very long time, and then suddenly something happened. And boom! I have to think about it right now, passively. Look at it, actually, look at it! Decided all at the same time. So it was really hard to compartmentalize all of these different things.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: and like, I remember we we had an interview where you know Dude was like, well, we didn't care about this issue at all at all, or like we didn't think that this was a thing to be looked at. But suddenly, people gave us feedback from different channels, and we weren't able to look at them. And then, like suddenly, we had the really big deal to explain to our investors. And you know, we we have a lot of churn. So we immediately needed something to fix the problem.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: So like, I, I'm I'm really wondering, are these steps set in stone, or you know, you know.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: How does this look like in the time window that we're trying to do the interviews because some of these steps can simultaneously act at the same time
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I thought these.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Screens.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I I think I I really appreciate your question, and what I'll say is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: no, they're not completely set in stone, but they might be more persistent than you might imagine. Given what I just heard you say. So, even if there's a more expedited timeline for these events to happen.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it still largely maps to these steps.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Some have a more condensed timeline, but more often than not that 1st thought happens a lot sooner than you may think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and when you're having a conversation with someone, they might think in their mind that something was an immediate choice or decision that happened out of nowhere, and it was a rapid process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But if you dig enough, you might realize that there were more inputs leading up to their readiness to take action in that moment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But, like you said like, I'll give the example. Right? I'm driving my car.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I get a flat tire that that's not really.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's not a very like long turnaround time from a moment where I need to make progress and a decision I have to make about what I'm going to do about it? Right? So that's the example that would, you know fit into, I think, what you're describing. But my only ask is that you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: give this a little bit of time to settle in with the people you talk to, because I do find more often than not 95% or more of the time when I'm doing this with all the companies that I've worked with, there is more than enough to not only fill in the information presented here, but usually even more
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. This is just a starting point for most of you. Some you may have more condensed, but many of you will have more expansion around.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think Kevin had his hand raised, and then Monica.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Yeah, I think this question is slightly more specific to me. And Nick.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: our purchasing
Kevin Su | TutorMe: our buyer is unique in the sense that students use it. But parents make the final purchase.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: make that make the actual purchase
Kevin Su | TutorMe: or so we think. And I think in the process of when we do these interviews, how would you.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: I guess, decide
Kevin Su | TutorMe: how many students, how important is to interview the students, how important to interview
Kevin Su | TutorMe: the parents at Mcdonald purchase our assumption. And maybe it's a risky assumption is that if students do, their research, parents would always say Yes, but I think
Kevin Su | TutorMe: that assumption would be dangerous, because with the parents that had said no, they probably had their own decision to say, no, they don't want to buy this product. Well, we would never hear from them, because there, we didn't have input from the students that asked the parents. And their parents said, No, if this if this question makes makes sense.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That makes perfect sense. So there are plenty of examples where the customer is different than the consumer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And this is also related to B, 2 B, it's another good example for B, 2 B, right? Because you have the person who decides to buy. But then there's the people who actually have to use it. And those are 2 different groups of people. Right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So does anyone have any thoughts or gut instincts about what would be recommended for Kevin's situation, or others.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Actually, my question was identical to Kevin's. So I don't recommendations. I usually have been targeting the decision maker. Like it depends on the company size. Right? You just have more and more stakeholders as your prospect gets bigger and bigger.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): So for these, when I did this interview, I for the for the smaller companies I just picked like the main business group decision maker. But yeah, I still have the same question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Excellent. It sounds like either Dave or George want to chime in.
Dave Scott: Yeah, I was, gonna say, usually, what I I do is particularly with B, 2 BI recommend that you. I establish a buying center and a buying center will have personas for people who are making the decision using the products, even gatekeepers, people who are gonna say No
Dave Scott: and then and then interview all the different sort of personas that you're dealing with. Because, for example, a lot of times, people don't realize like.
Dave Scott: Yeah, the Cfo actually gets involved in this decision right? And even though the Cfo doesn't really is not the primary user, they could say no. And so you need to figure out why anyone could say yes or they could say no. And then, oftentimes marketing. Typically what we'll do is we'll create marketing collateral specifically for the Cfo.
Dave Scott: so that we can answer their questions differently than someone else. Siso, the Siso now is really important to B. So, having an understanding of what the Siso cares about is also very useful. So that's my thoughts.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Excellent, George.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Yeah, no. Basically, I was gonna say that I did the same thing as interview the multiple personas.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: That would be yeah
George Reed - CEO and Founder: necessary for the process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I am really digging the vibe of this group sounds like we're all in alignment on the same page. What we like to think about and how we can help each other. So I'm grateful for everybody chiming in and helping out here. So I'm gonna wrap up here a few more slides, few more things to share. And then we can conclude questions and allude to the coming days. And what else? We're gonna cover, because this is just a part one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I don't know if you can tell by now. But what we're talking about is energy essentially, and that's what we're trying to dig into when you're doing these interviews and trying to understand your customers. Where is the energy coming from, and what kinds of energy are we trying to understand and deal with. So there's a few layers and and types of energy that are here. So there's the social energy, which is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how do others see me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in this decision that I have to make? So I think someone else gave an example. Earlier, when we were having the b 2 b. Conversation about well, will this help me? You know, with my job? Or if I make the wrong decision here, will it?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know, and my opportunity for employment or promotion. So there's a social energy that is at play both with that and the example that Liliana shared earlier with the air pod interview that we did at our university course that we teach. So there's a notion of social kind of awareness and impact and pressure that goes into certain purchasing decisions that get made.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's the functional piece, which is arguably like one of the most fundamentally important, which is, does it actually get the job done
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? Does it do it well, relative to others is the function there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sometimes something can be sold
Neal Sáles-Griffin: without the function.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but that is a very, very hard thing to do and not recommended.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's usually when you're buying something. For
Neal Sáles-Griffin: some other reason
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rather than the actual functional need, there might be more social and emotional forces at play, but you end up not using it. So I don't know if any of you all have paid for apps that are on your phone that you've never used or have only used once and never gone back to again. Or maybe there's a product or something that you have in your home that you bought because you thought you were going to use it all the time, and then you realize that it either didn't work or not nearly as good as something else that you're able to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that tends to happen a lot when we buy things on the functional dimension. And then, lastly, the emotional piece which I think is arguably the most powerful, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think from an advertising standpoint, it's 1 that you know, many businesses have learned to prioritize more in recent decades. But it's all about me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? How does this make me a better version of myself? How does this give me the self efficacy and excitement about that new and better way of living that I want to be by purchasing and consuming these sets of products and services that I'm paying money for. It's all about the individual and how they want to feel about themselves.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, understanding these 3 layers of of influence from an energy standpoint, as you do. Your discovery and research, is, is super important. And again, I can't emphasize it enough.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Very intuitive. When we talk about direct consumer purchases, because we all do that as individual consumers of things every single day. But I can tell you with full confidence that these are all at play
Neal Sáles-Griffin: within a professional business context for those purchasers and decision makers arguably even more so than the individual. Like Dave mentioned earlier, Liliana, you wanted to chime in.
Lilliana Robinson: When we teach this, I like to make a point clear that these energies, the different categorizations here sit on top of the 4 forces, so the timeline is completely separate. The 4 forces are part of this, but everything can be
Lilliana Robinson: categorizes any of them. So for social it could be a push, pull, habit, or anxiety for functional. It could be any of the 4 same with emotional. So a lot of people get stuck and think emotional is only pushes or functional, is only pulls, whatever it is. These rather just sit on top and are like a completely separate axis to categorize every single set of energies or feelings that a customer could have.
Lilliana Robinson: And then the timeline is something that you're filling out during the interview and the energies here, and the forces are things that you're doing during the debrief, and we'll get into how to interview and what what the debrief is tomorrow. But just know that that this is something that is very similar to the forces, and it's like a complete different axis. So you can start thinking about the mattress interview. And in your head categorizing. Okay, what did I see? That was social, functional, and emotional? And which of the 4 forces is each of those things?
Lilliana Robinson: If that makes sense.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think that was very well, said Liliana. And and I guess just to reiterate one other thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I know it, says I. I realize like I look at the bottom of the footer, and then it says, tech stars. We're very proud to be a tech stars, but I will say that we are the only program that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: teaches this. There's a different I guess overall like kind of teaching and framework. That's I. I would argue a bit more like straightforward and simplified. That is more widespread at techstars, and that's all good, and we support that, too. But we have a specialization here that we're really proud of, and that we like to go deep and dig in before program starts. So that's what you all are getting from us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: few final things here. One is understanding supply side versus demand side. So I think this is the point we've been making the entire time, but just to bring it all the way home. Most of the time. I am dealing with founders and investors and thinkers in business in general who default to supply side, thinking
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's always about what you're offering and what you're providing and and whether it's working or it isn't, and why. And that's where most of our time gets spent with who we talk about where we get advice. Most of the mentors and investors you're going to deal with. There's going to be a lot of energy around the how and the when and the how much you know about what it is you're supplying to the customer what works and what doesn't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what technology you have, how you make money. You know what what matters to you, with your strategy and your business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the most impressive, both investors and founders that I have worked with and perceive are the ones that do not default, to supply side commentary, or thinking at all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they always frame what they're doing and why they're doing it around the customers that they're serving and who they're helping.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So say what you will about, you know, liking him or not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a person by the name of Steve Jobs, who in many respects with business, I admire and have learned a lot from, and if you watch any or all of what he says when he was speaking.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: his demand side, like way of speaking, is like very prominent, and it stands out to me. And it was clearly an influence, I think, to this overall framework, and how it came to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because when you hear him speak, and he talks about apple, and how they try to design and build things with the customer in mind, it was, it was clearly in the organization's DNA
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the time when they were rolling out a lot of their innovative products. And I remember, just as a as a young person learning about business at the time, being really enamored with their way of thinking and their approach to both advertising, marketing, branding, and sales
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and technology overall. And what to build.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So keeping that in mind, I, my dream is for all of you coming out of this program to be armed with the demand side way of thinking and framing what you do, because I do think that from an investment standpoint
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the pattern recognition for an investor to see a founder or CEO
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that can tell a story not just in the spirit of how awesome their businesses and how exciting and investable it's going to be, but also just how successful they're going to make
Neal Sáles-Griffin: individual consumers and businesses in the world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: better off because of what they're here to do with the vision they have for their business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. So now, to get even more Nerdy Liliana promised that what we were talking about would map to company systems from a b 2 b standpoint. And here it is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so that timeline that we just spoke about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the reason I am was trying to tell you, Yuger, that it's more relevant than you might think is because it was actually designed with these company systems in mind.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So at any given company. You're going to have marketing right where you're going to have to make people aware of what you're doing and to get them interested in what you're doing. And then, once they're aware and interested.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's a conversion that happens where now they're ready to become potential customers of yours. And now there's a there's a conversation that happens about what decision to make and what to pay, and whether to pay and what they're getting for paying.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then ultimately, once they've paid, and they've become your customer. How do you make sure that they're successful? How do you retain them when you lose them? How do you make sure you build in ways to either get them back or learn from their, you know, experience, and why they're no longer interested in being a customer of yours. So all 3 of these, like layers of the organization's journey and dealing with the customer connect to that timeline. So I know the visuals might make it seem a little bit more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, cartoonish, if you will, but these are robust processes that connect to like large enterprise companies, and how they operate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I hope that resonates a little bit for those of you that are are thinking about this framework in the context of B, 2 B but just everyone in general. These will incorporate into your into your company, I think, in a really
Neal Sáles-Griffin: seamless way. If if you if you take the approach seriously
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool. So I want to wrap with questions. But I also wanted to just mention a few more things, so I mentioned that I know clay clay sadly. A number of years ago passed away. But before he did Bob, who I'll also explain and share more about and introduce you all to now. Brought me to Harvard Business School to work with Clay on a few things, and Clay helped me out with a project that I'll share more about in my founder story. But he is extremely tall.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like I'm I'm a short guy. I'm 5 8, but like play is like, I don't know. 6, 7, something like that giant Dude.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But he did this one thing. He gets on one knee, and that's just like a humility exercise that he I don't know how he described it, but it was kind of cute. But yeah, I'll forever appreciate and admire Clay for everything that he's done, both for business and for us and and for for Bob here. So this is the mattress interview, Guy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is the guy that you all heard speak and and dig into things. And he's the guy who introduced me to jobs to be done out of a base camp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I want to tell you Bob's story. Really fast. And then, Liliana, how am I on time? I have like 20 min.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, yeah, we're doing well, okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're we're doing. Well, okay. So to tell you Bob's story, I want to talk about these 2 things.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anybody know what these are
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what's on the top, what's on the bottom feel free to unmute.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Is it a Mars and a snicker? No.
Dave Scott: I'll say it's a Milky way, and
Talitha Abraham: Or is twix and snickers. Yeah, snickers.
Lilliana Robinson: Dominique was correct. It's just different in in Europe.
Lilliana Robinson: Wait so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Wait! Wait, Dominique, what are you calling? The one on the top.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I think it's a mar we call it a Mars bar. It's a.
Chloe Lannert: And Milky Way.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mars Bar is Milky Way. It's some, and and okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Chloe confirm. We have our European.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Wow!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mars is the name of the company. Mars is the name of the company.
Chloe Lannert: They're branded as Marcos. Yeah, interesting.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And Milky way in England doesn't have caramel. It's just
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I'll bring them to Sf. Anyway, we don't.
Lilliana Robinson: Email.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean. Look, I'm just enjoying.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Course.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I just know how universal food and and and snacks are to people so like. These are perfect examples that just bring us all together so alright. And then Dave, I think, got it, too. So there's a milky way on top, and the snickers on the bottom. Alright.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is where the story with Bob begins
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at least the one that I'm familiar with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here in the States
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they're
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, we're we're Western advertising has its own like kind of way of doing things.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there's this. I I believe this was a super bowl commercial I I need to verify, for sure, but this is at least a commercial for snickers. But I want to share with you all a snickers commercial. It's very brief, but we're gonna have a quick conversation about it, and then talk about a few other developments here. So let me make sure this works.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Can I hope you enjoy that snickers? Is it sound working
Neal Sáles-Griffin: happy? Peanut? So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: over chocolate, covered mountaintops and waterfalls of caramel.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: prancing new good in the meadow, sings a song of satisfaction to the world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all right. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what's going on here? You're at Mars. You're working on the snickers team, and you're coming up with a very expensive commercial to run.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are we? What are we selling?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's our message?
Talitha Abraham: They're focusing on the features of the of the
Talitha Abraham: snickers bar. Describing what exactly it's made of.
Talitha Abraham: Yeah.
Dave Scott: They're selling joy.
Dave Scott: Yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: They're selling an experience rather than a product. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: It looks the work looks boring like it's like a drab, sad carpet shop. And now he's got this like a little minute in his day. That's bright and nice.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? Right? So it's like, like, maybe the dealing with some sort of mundanity, right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anything else
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause they spent a lot of money to to run this ad.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: I used to work at. I used to work at one of the large corporations and I would often stay late in the office, and
Kirimgeray Kirimli: and all the higher floors, and the only thing we had on that floor was a vending machine, and snickers was actually the best thing they had in that vending machine.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: Oftentimes it's quite enjoyable to have a snickers. I think
Kirimgeray Kirimli: I could resonate with what's going on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I can. I can hear it, man, I can hear it. I'm sorry I I can't relate to what you guys are describing, but I can imagine, you know, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just we need something we need something to deal with, just having to sit around here and not do much. So I guess that's what. Yeah. I think that was the intent behind this ad. Now, my other question to you all is,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: why wasn't this working? Because what I'm sharing with you is is pre progress. So Snickers was in a position when they were running this ad where they were at risk
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they were struggling as a as a product, and mars the company that owned snickers was essentially considering a sunsetting
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the candy bar at the time. So we're like this isn't working out like we're not selling, and we need to do something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one of Bob's friends worked at Mars
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and called Bob up because Bob was already doing a lot of work in in products and consumer products. But in a very different context. And they flew in Bob, who's from Detroit into New Jersey, where the Mars kind of headquarters is to come, investigate to figure out what was going on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So Bob comes in, sees the ads that they're running sees what they're doing. And Mars had an interesting dilemma where they're like, well, Milky Way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, and snickers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they're
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're trying to figure out what the difference is between them and and why people are consuming them. There's not much of a difference right now from our our research and understanding of what's happening.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So Bob, even in his journey of visiting the Mars factory, found himself still questioning what was going on, and not really clear
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on finding a better way
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to help snickers succeed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and understanding what the difference between snickers and Milky Way even was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so, from what I can tell. Sounds like some of you all might know, because we've been in the world for a few decades. Now, most of us and you all might have a better understanding of these products now. But I have to tell you back then, around the same time that Clay was dealing with Mcdonald's, Bob was here trying to figure out what was going on with these candy bars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he found himself heading back to Detroit in the New Jersey airport
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with these same questions on his mind.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So he's at the airport still unclear. What he even experienced and saw from having these conversations with these executives and marketers and product people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he chances upon someone who goes to a kiosk at the airport and purchases a snickers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob told me this story when I 1st got to know him that his mother, when he was a kid, gave him a 3 foot.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: meaning, if he's within 3 feet of you, he can talk to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So he followed this man to his gate in the airport, and he sat near him. He observed him, and what he did with his snickers bar. This man proceeded to sit down, open up his laptop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and before using and typing on his laptop he ate the snickers bar and then started to send emails.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob introduces himself, and has a conversation with him to ask him
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what job essentially he was hiring that snickers bar to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the gentleman proceeds to tell him that he would like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to sleep on the airplane, and wanted enough energy to power through knocking out his work before he had to board.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This was interesting to Bob. So then Bob goes back to the same kiosk area. And what do you think he does?
Dave Scott: Problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any guesses. What's that.
Dave Scott: Follow someone else.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Exactly. He waits.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's like, all right. Who is gonna be next?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who is going to buy a Milky Way? I've seen a snickers. But what's happening with the Milky Way? Because that was the job I flew out here to do. And now I'm heading back, and I still don't have an answer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He waits and he waits, and he waits.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it turns out when he spoke to the cashier.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that they are flipping snickers like hotcakes there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but they sell very little to any
Neal Sáles-Griffin: milky ways.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So Bob proceeds to continue to have this puzzle on his mind of what's going on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So he goes home.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And now he's wondering. Okay, I I've seen snickers in real time myself, directly get purchased in the field.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but I'm not sure who's buying milky ways or who's consuming them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: comes home in Detroit, puzzled, explains the story to his wife.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who the heck is buying milky ways, and when are they buying them? And why are they buying them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: His wife looks at him, smiles, stands up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: walks over to the kitchen, and goes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have a milky way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: She reaches behind the fridge in a cabinet, pulls down a bowl.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and out comes a sniff, Milky Way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this gave Bob a hint.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He went back to Mars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: looked at the data.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it turns out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the consumption context
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for Milky Way and snickers were entirely different
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and far more people were consuming Milky Way as a replacement for dessert
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for extended consumption. Times relative to snickers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: turned out, even at the time that more women were purchasing knickers, bars than men based on the data that they had been gathering.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I believe the snickers is consumed to anywhere from 60 seconds to 90 seconds.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whereas the Milky Way consumption time was anywhere. From 10 to 15 min
Neal Sáles-Griffin: people would even put their candy bars in the freezer
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to make them colder, to last longer, and to be a replacement for things like ice cream.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when they looked at the data and they did the research, and they figured out that the competitive sets for a snickers and the Milky Way were so fundamentally different.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It opened up a whole new world of how they could think about both marketing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and selling the product as well as how to reorient the product, to address the jobs
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that they need to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here's what came of it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What? Yeah.
Dave Scott: Yeah.
Dave Scott: Mike. Come on, Mike. What is your deal, man? Come on, man, you've been riding me all day. You're playing like Betty White out there. That's not what your girlfriend said. You snickers
Dave Scott: better.
Dave Scott: Hi! I'm all back.
Dave Scott: God hurt you're not you when you're hungry. Snicker satisfies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're not you when you're hungry. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you all probably remember this because we came up in the Era when Snickers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: came to prominence and became the number one candy bar in the world. So again, can't give all credit just to Bob and this insight, but it certainly set the company up to have a new direction for their understanding of the job, that the product was being hired to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. Thought I, was.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: give you all that that context. I don't know if you all have any questions or comments about it. But I do know that the big question that comes up next, usually when I'm dealing with this, what does the candy bar have to do with building a new startup or a business, especially ones that are in tech or deep tech.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But before I move on, I mean.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I haven't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, please.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I have a simple question.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: does these 2 bars actually taste the same in the Us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Tell me, everybody? Do they taste the same.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, what's the difference?
Dave Scott: I'm allergic, so I have no idea.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: I I think snickershes have peanuts in it. And
Kevin Su | TutorMe: that's milky Way does does not? Milky Way is just like caramelly.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: I don't even know it's caramel, but it's like soft, fluffy.
Dave Scott: Nookie inside.
Lilliana Robinson: And nougat. Yeah.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: Yeah. Yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: And and this.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: yeah, go ahead. Sorry.
Kevin Su | TutorMe: But no sorry. I I got nothing else to add to that.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah, my my second.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I'm quite interested with
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: naming commitments, and
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: you know, speakers should be the name of a racing horse that the Marx family owned back in the day. So it has something to do with, you know, being active while Milky Way sounds a bit more like, you know. Milk is more, you know, closer to sleeping, etc. So maybe maybe that was the initial goal of the bars itself. Or maybe I'm off shooting too much here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. And I mean, I'm not the professional either. Here I'm I'm selling. I'm I'm sharing an anecdotal story right? Obviously from from someone who I know and work have worked with. But I would describe a Milky Way as smooth.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whereas a snickers bar comes off is very like almost like a power bar or an energy bar. Right? There's like a chunkiness to it. It's satiated.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: You know, it feels like you're, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Meal.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's right.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah. George.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Oh, no, I was just gonna say, it's kind of interesting, as like a prelude to the whole focus on high protein snacks and all that. Now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Sort of like a
George Reed - CEO and Founder: so like the deal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: To that. Quite interesting. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So so. And and these are old stories, right? So I know they're not as as modern or as relevant as some of the examples that we're going to share with you going forward. But I always think it's fun given that I knew the people who.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, kind of began these journeys and and their respective stories. I always like to share it as the 1st phase of of introducing jobs. To the class. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you all aren't selling candy bars here. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the main thing that we're going to be able to derive from this is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the languages and the processes and the domino effect of what's going on from the consumer journey from the beginning
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the chain of events that undeniably cause the problem. So I thought I would like, give you all the origin story in the foundation. We've learned a lot more as time has gone on about how this impacts early stage startups and different industries and technologies, but from Mcdonald's to Mars and Milky Wayne snickers to milkshakes. I think we're now in a place where we can move into. You know how this is relevant to all of you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one thing that I always like to make sure that you all understand is the difference between what we call a big hire and a little higher.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a big higher is the point of commitment. That's when you know consumption is actually happening. From the onset. When I make the purchase decision, a little higher is something else that might happen, which is, once they purchase the product or service. And there's these little points of of utilization along the way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That are slightly, you know, different than the original expected utilization.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this can offer pivots or forks in the road, or additional features. Other things that you can do to shift or enhance. You know your product offering, and it's really helpful to keep that in mind as well as you go, because entire businesses can be developed from those little higher examples. So one another example that I know Bob worked on early on was, does anyone familiar with
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Nyquil?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anyone ever use Nyquil?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So Nyquil is helping you when you're sick, right? It's helping you with the like basically like cough syrup cough medicine.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There were 2 other jobs that ended up emerging from the Nyquil use case because people were hiring Nyquil even when
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they weren't sick, and people were hiring Nyquil, even though they didn't want to sleep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does anybody know what products may have been forked off from Nyquil
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to address those
Neal Sáles-Griffin: needs.
Annie Brown: Quill and dayquil.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Exactly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Dz Quill is to help you sleep, even though you're not sick. Day. Quil is to help you when you're sick. But you're not trying to sleep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so they didn't come out with all 3 of those at the same time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Nyquil was being hired, and a little higher, for it. Were these other use cases that were less relevant for helping me sleep for helping me with sickness?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So these are the types of examples and references you all can keep in mind with some of your consumers to understand. Okay, what are they hiring me to do? And is it everything, or is it part of what I'm offering.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: As far as like my enjoyment of jobs to be done. It helps with a lot of organizational alignment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so it'll help you with decision making
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So if you have a debate, or you know you're unclear on what the right path to go down is going back to what our jobs to be done are, or which one that we want to actually accomplish or achieve
Neal Sáles-Griffin: helps ground the conversation and decision making process. It also helps with optimizing our resources? Are we directing our energy towards doing the job, or are we distracted and working on a few other things that we're unclear on, whether it's important or helpful to address.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's also inspiring it. It means so much to know that you're actually solving the customer's problem and addressing what they truly need your help with as opposed to things that you're either hoping or guessing might be important to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, last, but not least, it allows us to more objectively orient our success metrics and how we're actually evaluating our business performance to know that we're actually
Neal Sáles-Griffin: customer centric in what we're doing and how we're helping our customers succeed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This last one I can relate to personally right now, in the sense of being at techstars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One phrase that is more prominent now than ever before is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: bigger. Is it better? Better, is better
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so when we think about our business of investors
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for many years, in recent years at least there has been an effort to raise lots of money and to scale and to invest in more and more businesses
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what we're now talking about, which I'm very proud of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is we don't need to invest in more businesses the businesses that we are invested in. We need to do a better job, for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm really excited about the current direction of of where all our conversation and energy is happening as a team and as a company, and it's absolutely oriented around founder success with their businesses and their satisfaction of our program experience and our role as their early investors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the overall process for you all that you're going to learn in the coming days and over the next few weeks is how to frame the learning questions, meaning, what am I trying to learn by conducting research and doing interviews. In the 1st place.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who should I talk to? How do I screen for the right people to recruit, to speak to an interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do I conduct the interviews in a way that gives me the information I need to have the better understanding that will help me Orient my business successfully.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do I then, once I conduct the interview, have a debrief that actually allows me to derive the forces of progress and understand the energies and motivations that are involved in that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, once I have that data set at least 10 to 15 of those.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how do I analyze it, to understand what pat underlying patterns exist that have a causal
Neal Sáles-Griffin: connection to the consumer behavior and the decision to purchase.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Once I have that information. Now I can detail what I believe the jobs to be done might be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And once I have those jobs bucketed and defined, I can understand what the implications and opportunities to prototype and change. My business would be both with respect to marketing and sales, product development and overall company vision and strategic direction and technology.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: I was gonna say that I think the one that is extremely underrated here, that most of you, probably even reading this glossed over is framing the learning question. So like a lot of people want to get right into. Okay, who do I interview? How do I find those interviewees and all of that, we focus a lot on getting the learning question correct.
Lilliana Robinson: and I'll work with each of you on that.
Lilliana Robinson: so that the Jtbd round that you're doing in this group, like group exercise will do over the next few weeks has a purpose. So that'll be different for each of you. I've already heard some of you put out ideas of what you kind of need right now, what you need to figure out. But the every other step here will be useless or futile if your learning question is not framed specifically and correctly, and geared towards something that
Lilliana Robinson: actually valuable for your business to learn. So some people will come out of you know, having a good screening criteria that's nice and narrow, and doing a set of jobs to be done interviews with us, and they'll tell us I didn't really learn anything I didn't already know, or that wasn't useful.
Lilliana Robinson: And then I asked them, Well, what did you set out to learn. And so they hadn't thought about it, or it wasn't something that was actually useful. Things like that. So start thinking now about what learning question or learning objective. You might want for this round of jobs to be done. And remember, remember that you can always do more in the future. We're just all gonna do one together to to learn over the next few weeks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the tie bow on this conversation, and then final, wrap up with a few questions before we conclude
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in summary, what we're also doing is you just simply interviewing people who switch from one thing to another. Right? Usually it's a switch. There's other criteria sometimes, but that's a very simplified way to put it, understand their decision making process. And you analyze the forces that make them switch.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's what we're here to help you all do over the next couple of weeks. We do this before the program starts, because it's our bread and butter. And by understanding this framework well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: once the program starts on September 9, th you're going to have wind in your sales. You're gonna have a better understanding of who you're helping, and you're going to know how to take advantage of the community that we're getting ready to introduce you to here in San Francisco and well beyond. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's part one
Neal Sáles-Griffin: questions.
Annie Brown: Do. The people you interview have to be people that
Annie Brown: are con like considering your product. Or when you're saying switch from one product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Question.
Annie Brown: Does it? Could it be that they switched from one competitor to another competitor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's much more important to interview people who, I would say, are not
Neal Sáles-Griffin: merely prospective customers, but people who have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: had some sort of switch moment occur recently.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're going to talk more about this in the next few sessions. But what that means is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you want people who within the past
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ideally 3 to 6 months, if not more recent.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have made a switch.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Either they fired a product or they've hired a product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They've done something that indicates behavior that you want to better understand, that tells you more about who you want to help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great. So one mistake a lot of people make when they do. Customer interviews is they try to talk to people who they think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: could be their customers, but they're just talking to them, and they don't understand the timing or the placement of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what behaviors or actions they've taken recently that would even indicate that they would be a good person to to learn from.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So basically, Annie, if you have someone who is hired
Neal Sáles-Griffin: either a direct or indirect competitor to reliable.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's who you want to talk to because you want to go. I want to understand your decision to to sign up for this product or service. So let's unpack what led you to do that? Because by me, learning that I know what you're looking for, because I think ultimately I might be the right answer for you, but I'm not sure.
Annie Brown: Cool. I love that. That's cause. That was where I was. Getting stuck is like how to pick the right customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Correct.
Annie Brown: That's a huge answer. So thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One other thing, though, Annie is, I know you have customers. So the other thing that's helpful is, once you get a customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you can wait a few weeks, but not too long.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Interview them.
Annie Brown: Hmm.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And go. What got you here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know? Let's talk about what got you here? Not about, because a lot of the times a lot of my founders. They want to interview customers that they get to to basically feed their ego and go tell me how great I am. Tell me what you like about me, and tell me, you know, why do you like us? It's like, no, no, no.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you don't want to talk about now. You want to talk about before they found you, what they were dealing with and how they got to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the journey that we want to understand here.
Annie Brown: Okay. Great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Phyllis.
Filiz Yönyüksel: So it's kind of a like general question, maybe the basics. But like I'm thinking about in the Mcdonald's makeshake. Example, we
Filiz Yönyüksel: heard that, like the the health of the makeshake buyers by, it's like before 8 am. And
Filiz Yönyüksel: I'm just curious about like the half we're not focusing on, because maybe we can maybe think of some things to also include them. But perhaps we're not doing it because we don't have the like common
Filiz Yönyüksel: aspects of them. But actually, that is something I have in mind to understand. Like.
Filiz Yönyüksel: we have the people we can like connect to with the things we know about them. Unlike the other
Filiz Yönyüksel: kind of gray area that we don't. And I'm just curious how to like maybe reach out to them, or should we should our priority be that, or like the 1st one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So one thing we're also going to get into in the coming days is how to have a well defined screening criteria. Meaning, who do we talk to? And how do we get to them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we will dig into that in the next couple of days. So if I don't properly address what you're asking by. Then let me know.
Filiz Yönyüksel: Okay. Thanks. Cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Couple minutes left any other
Neal Sáles-Griffin: bonus round questions or feedback.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hope this has been helpful and good use of your time.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: That's great.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I loved it.
Lilliana Robinson: Neil and I were thinking, what next steps do we have for them for tomorrow? And I was saying, Digest. So that's your homework. Just reflect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Tomorrow. I'd love to hear any kind of like insights or thoughts that you guys had as this marinated for the rest of the day before we start tomorrow, because obviously there was so much thrown at you, and I'm very interested to see how that settles into your into your brains.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. And for some of you I know that this is a reinforcing mechanism, meaning you already intuitively understand this, or have your own experience that, you know connects with these ideas because this is not proprietary information.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: These are things that successful businesses and people in the world have figured out in their own way already. And we're just giving a little bit more color and maybe framing to understanding this in our own in our own way, that hopefully, universally applies to to you all. But I'm really excited to to go down the journey of learning this together. One thing that I always take pride in is every founder that I invest in to some extent knows jobs. And when you hear other people say that they know jobs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you spend 5 or 10 min talking to them about what they understand about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You'll know the difference in our training relative to where you can learn this anywhere else. So really proud of that. But yeah, with that, let's give you all a minute of your life and time back. We'll hang here in case anyone wants to talk further. And then, Agent Lunar, I know I'm doing a product, Demo, with you all right after this, right? So, looking forward to that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'll see y'all tomorrow.
Dave Scott: Thanks a lot.